What a rare and rich treat to see a group of performers stretch the classics as far as possible and not one inch further. That&rsquo;s what the misleadingly named Bedlam company has done with its taut, maraudingly high-spirited take on George Bernard Shaw &rsquo;s &ldquo;Saint Joan&rdquo; at the Access Theater. A protean quartet has created a
Hey, guys, what say we have a Chekhov slumber party? We&rsquo;ll put on our pajamas, open a few bottles of vodka and sit around and talk about how hopeless our lives are &mdash; maybe with Russian accents. Come on, it&rsquo;ll be fun. That&rsquo;s the implicit invitation issued by the Target Margin Theater&rsquo;s antic riff on Chekhov&rsquo;s
Like many Hindi movies, &ldquo;Jannat 2&rdquo; doesn&rsquo;t like to keep you guessing about its characters&rsquo; motivations. Why is that cop (Randeep Hooda) swigging whiskey and preparing to dangle a suspect off a bridge? Because, his partner soon explains, he has lost his wife and vowed revenge against the gun smugglers who killed her. And why
The proposition that jazz is a global language, spanning continents and cultures, has been a reliable diplomatic device for so many years that it now has the ring of a banality. &ldquo;Jazz became the world&rsquo;s music long ago,&rdquo; said Susan E. Rice, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, in that organization&rsquo;s General
The Finnish composer Magnus Lindberg is also a skilled pianist. So he is not one of those composers who write demanding piano works without really understanding the degree of difficulty. Mr. Lindberg absolutely knew that his Piano Concerto No. 2 would present awesome technical challenges for the soloist. But he also knew that the virtuoso pianist
Deep misgivings lurk in the lean, confident, sleekly retro pop songs of Electric Guest, a Los Angeles band that performed at the Bowery Ballroom on Wednesday night. &ldquo;I know I, I won&rsquo;t make it/don&rsquo;t know what to do,&rdquo; Asa Taccone sang over the tootling major chords and snappy, handclapping beat of &ldquo;Waves&rdquo; from the
Louis Armstrong, Sophie Tucker and Ethel Waters : modern popular and jazz singing sprang from this trinity, Michael Feinstein declared on Wednesday evening at the Allen Room, where he presented the Jazz at Lincoln Center program, &ldquo;Ethel Waters: Blues, Broadway and Jazz.&rdquo; In a culture whose collective historical memory begins with rock
Evgeny Kissin has built a stellar career as an interpreter of the standard Romantic canon, with Chopin and the Russian masters at its heart, and he has become an increasingly thoughtful Brahms and Beethoven pianist as well. But he has never shown much interest in American music, so when word got out that Samuel Barber &rsquo;s Sonata (1949) would
Adam Yauch, a rapper and founder of the pioneering and multimillion-selling hip-hop group the Beastie Boys , died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 47. His mother, Frances Yauch, confirmed his death. He had been treated for cancer of the salivary gland for the last three years. With a scratchy voice that grew scratchier through the years, Mr. Yauch
Crime hasn&rsquo;t disappeared from England as a result of Sherlock Holmes&rsquo;s 21st-century efforts; it has merely become irrelevant. Benedict Cumberbatch , who is back for a new season as Holmes on Sunday on PBS&rsquo;s &ldquo;Masterpiece Mystery!,&rdquo; is getting so good at his quirky portrayal that the crimes Holmes is solving are a
HBO has come under renewed scrutiny for the treatment of horses on &ldquo;Luck,&rdquo; its recently canceled dramatic series set in the world of gambling and horse racing, as documents obtained by an advocacy group once again questioned the handling of animals used in the series and the qualifications of professionals charged with looking after
It has Eddie Izzard , and it has fishnets, but no, Mr. Izzard is not doing his cross-dressing thing again. He&rsquo;s having what appears to be a pretty good seafaring time clomping around on one-and-a-half legs in &ldquo;Treasure Island,&rdquo; a new, four-hour version of Robert Louis Stevenson&rsquo;s find-the-gold story being broadcast Saturday
We need irreverent comedians more than ever these days, because without them, how could we possibly sit through all those tedious award shows? No one is better at interrupting industry back-patting to deliver a smack to the head than Chris Rock, who at the Tonys ceremony last year called his announcement of the award for best musical as pointless
Art lovers shuttling around the city for Frieze Week might be forgiven for feeling some d&eacute;j&agrave; vu: Wasn&rsquo;t Armory Week just two months ago? The risk runs especially high at Center 548 in Chelsea, which in March was the site of a &ldquo;temporary exhibition&rdquo; called Independent and is now home to NADA NYC . Running through
Randalls Island is a green piece of Manhattan real estate separating the East and Harlem Rivers. In the century after the city acquired the land in 1835, it was the site of a poorhouse; a reformatory for juvenile delinquents; and a hospital for &ldquo;Idiots and Children.&rdquo; By the 1930s, when the urban planner/wrecker Robert Moses set up an
&ldquo;Ambient Cowboy,&rdquo; a new work by Ivy Baldwin Dance that opened at New York Live Arts on Wednesday, begins with Ms. Baldwin and Lawrence Cassella on a bare stage. Bright lines emerge out of nowhere on the wall behind them, lengthening in free curves that spill over, surprisingly, onto the plane of the floor. Only when the lines are
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater . A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events . Previews and Openings &lsquo;____ (The Cockfight Play)&rsquo; (in
CHICAGO &mdash; In the muddy darkness that blankets the stage in the opening minutes of &ldquo;The Iceman Cometh&rdquo; at the Goodman Theater here, human forms seem to be slumped on battered chairs and tables in the back room of a dingy saloon. Curled or contorted into lifeless poses, they resemble slumbering animals, some starved to the bone,
Could concussions hurt football as badly as steroids did baseball? It&rsquo;s doubtful, but in the last few years, as focus has increased on how injuries effect the long-term health of football players, it&rsquo;s no longer inconceivable. Alan Schwarz in The New York Times rigorously chronicled the devastating toll of concussions, including
And baby made three? In the opening moments of this &ldquo;Macbeth,&rdquo; directed by Ron Russell, a home video plays, showing a mother, father and infant. There&rsquo;s also a photo nearby of those parents, the Macbeths it turns out, gently kissing their baby&rsquo;s head. A painted version of that image forms a backdrop above the stage. The idea
Jay Famiglietti, one of a handful of expert witnesses in Jessica Yu&rsquo;s &ldquo;Last Call at the Oasis,&rdquo; is a thoughtful scientist with an engaging manner who specializes in water. In particular, he studies &mdash; and tries to raise public awareness about &mdash; the rapid depletion of water supplies caused by agricultural overuse,
&ldquo;You&rsquo;re living in sin,&rdquo; declares Eileen Cleary ( Kathleen Turner ), a devout Roman Catholic mother, to her lesbian daughter, Shannon (Emily Deschanel), in &ldquo;The Perfect Family.&rdquo; &ldquo;Says who?&rdquo; Shannon snaps. &ldquo;The pope,&rdquo; Eileen retorts. Shannon demands, &ldquo;What do you think?&rdquo; Eileen&rsquo;s
&ldquo;The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel&rdquo; belongs to the &ldquo;Enchanted April&rdquo; school of agreeable grown-up entertainment, in which transplanted Britons shake off the North Atlantic chill on a life-altering trip to warmer climes. Instead of Italy in the 1920s, the place of renewal is Jaipur, India, and the time is now. Its seven
Henry James Herman (Jason Spevack), the protagonist and sometime narrator of Dennis Lee&rsquo;s absurdist comedy &ldquo;Jesus Henry Christ,&rdquo; is a 10-year-old prodigy with an IQ of 301 (the second-highest ever recorded, we&rsquo;re told) who began speaking at the age of 9 months. &ldquo;Everybody thinks I have a photographic memory, but
I worry about &ldquo;You Hurt My Feelings,&rdquo; a film you want to wrap your arms around and shelter from a ruthless marketplace. Like something that David Gordon Green might have made before being seduced by more generously financed projects , this fragile sophomore feature, written and directed by Steve Collins, reminds us that watching movies
Scientists estimate that we reached Peak Superhero in the summer of 2008, when &ldquo;The Dark Knight&rdquo; sucked the attention of every critic, pundit and sentient moviegoer into its inky nexus. It is not as if the number of movies featuring troubled guys wearing costumes and fighting evil has diminished since then. Quite the contrary. But the
Playing an older, more tight-lipped version of the psychotic nanny she embodied in &ldquo;The Hand That Rocks the Cradle&rdquo; (1992), Rebecca De Mornay still knows how to twist maternal instincts into grotesque shapes. As the malevolent matriarch in &ldquo;Mother&rsquo;s Day&rdquo; &mdash; an unnecessary remake of an unremarkable 1980 shocker
The tears are often held tremulously back and the many hurts smiled away in &ldquo;First Position,&rdquo; an appealing, largely upbeat documentary about young ballet dancers duking it out, sometimes on point and in tulle, for top honors at the Youth America Grand Prix. Each year, this prominent competition hands out both actual contracts and more
For most people, a midlife crisis is solved by changing careers, partners or therapists. But for the filmmaker Amos Kollek, the depression and artistic stasis that followed the failure of his 2003 film, &ldquo;Happy End&rdquo; (also called &ldquo;Nowhere to Go but Up&rdquo; ), was best countered by once again picking up a camera. This time,
There&rsquo;s so much that&rsquo;s wrong with &ldquo;A Little Bit of Heaven,&rdquo; including its misleading title (think further south and then head toward the ninth circle), that it&rsquo;s hard to know where to begin. For starters, when did cancer become funny? Not that it&rsquo;s ever hilarious, even in laugh-lined movies like &ldquo;Funny
Movies Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases: nytimes.com/movies . &lsquo;American Reunion&rsquo; (R, 1:53) Jim, Stifler, Finch, Oz, Stifler&rsquo;s mom, Jim&rsquo;s dad and the rest of the &ldquo;American Pie&rdquo; crew return for their 13th high school reunion.
HILLSBOROUGH, N.J. TEENAGERS growing up in this part of Central New Jersey used to boast of how they had jumped the stone walls into Doris Duke&rsquo;s 2,740-acre estate here. How many actually made it past her private police force and how many merely bragged about doing so are lost to the haze of memory. But the legend speaks to the mystery of
&lsquo;PLOP!&rsquo; It all starts with an apple. That fruit has a history of causing trouble: Just remember Genesis. But in the little Eden now at the New 42nd Street Studios &mdash; home not to Adam and Eve, but to Roger and Roberta, fluffy rabbits &mdash; apples don&rsquo;t signal an end to innocence but rather a joyful celebration of it. That
HYDE PARK, N.Y. &mdash; If you want to get some sense of how the American presidency has evolved over the last century, take the Roosevelt Ride . It started running here this week near the estate where Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt lived and where the modern presidency began to take shape. The ride isn&rsquo;t something radical. It is not a roller
Around Town Museums and Sites Bronx Museum of the Arts: &lsquo;Baseball in the Bronx: Nine Innings of Bronx Baseball&rsquo; (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) This show, which will be up through May 13, includes photographs of amateur and professional players over the years, as well as memorabilia of former players and others. Viewing hours for
Alice Tully Hall It might seem as if a concert honoring the centennial of Japan&rsquo;s gift of cherry blossom trees to America should have included substantial works by Japanese or American composers. Instead the Kioi Sinfonietta Tokyo offered Mozart and Beethoven for its New York debut on Wednesday evening at Alice Tully Hall, part of a four-city
Zankel Hall Bartok called the 153 piano pieces he compiled in six books between 1926 and 1939 &ldquo;Mikrokosmos.&rdquo; It was the same subject of little worlds &mdash; by Bartok as well as by Bach, Beethoven, Kurtag and J&ouml;rg Widmann &mdash; that the pianist Andras Schiff explored on Wednesday evening in a dense, masterly, exhausting,
Pop Prices may not reflect ticketing service charges. For full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music . Fred Armisen&rsquo;s Playlist Live! (Sunday) The affable punk junkie of &ldquo;Saturday Night Live&rdquo; resumes his torrent of cover songs by his favorite artists, from the Clash to H&uuml;sker D&uuml;, with assistance from mystery
KINGSTON, Jamaica (AP) &mdash; Lloyd Brevett, a double bassist who helped carry ska music from Jamaica to the world as a founding member of the influential band the Skatalites, died here on Thursday. He was 80. His death was announced by a family spokeswoman, Maxine Stowe. She said Mr. Brevett was being treated in a Kingston hospital for seizures
Alice Tully Hall The Freiburg Baroque Orchestra has performed impressively at the Mostly Mozart Festival in recent years and has built an estimable discography. Its most recent release is a rewarding traversal of Bach&rsquo;s four orchestral suites (on Harmonia Mundi), and on Tuesday evening the ensemble brought its zesty, sharply etched
New-music groups often seem to storm through stacks of new scores as if they were airport novels, rarely giving them a second look once they&rsquo;ve appeared on a program. That may be liberating in the sense that every program creates fresh challenges, but given the amount of work it takes to prepare a performance, it must be frustrating as well.
I recently spoke with the 83-year-old improvising pianist Cecil Taylor for about five hours over two days. One day was at his three-story home in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, where he has lived since 1983. Two female friends worked as his assistants, lighting his cigarettes and bringing him Champagne as he held forth volcanically behind a semicircular
Jazz Full reviews of recent jazz performances: nytimes.com/jazz . Toshiko Akiyoshi Trio (Friday and Saturday) Ms. Akiyoshi, an accomplished composer and big-band leader, takes a somewhat rare turn with a small group, showcasing her ironclad technique and rhythmic aplomb. Her partners are the bassist Paul Gill and the drummer Aaron Kimmel. At 8 and
Classical Full reviews of recent classical performances: nytimes.com/classical . Opera &#9733; &lsquo;Billy Budd&rsquo; (Friday and Thursday) With short runs of this seething Britten opera and Janacek&rsquo;s &ldquo;Makropulos Case,&rdquo; the Metropolitan Opera is the place to go for a late-season mini-bonanza of 20th-century opera. Based on
Park Avenue Armory, at 67th StreetThrough Sunday The Art and Antique Dealers League of America Spring Show, now in its second year, needs some weeding at the low end before it can compete with the best fairs of the winter season. Still, it is loaded with wonderful objects. Nicholas Grindley has the smartest display among the 63 exhibitors. On a
Simon Preston Gallery 301 Broome Street Lower East Side Through June 15 On first encounter &ldquo;Atelier,&rdquo; the brilliant 2010 video by the Austrian artist Hans Schabus seems &mdash; at the risk of gender stereotyping &mdash; an overdetermined instance of boy movie-love, a guy thing. This nearly 10-minute loop recreates &mdash; cut by cut and
Metro Pictures 519 West 24th Street Chelsea Through June 9 One of the most recent images in Cindy Sherman&rsquo;s imposing retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art is an odd duck: a large, horizontal photograph of a pale, worn woman in a lavish feathered flapper&rsquo;s cape seen against a dour, indistinct somewhat painterly landscape of a kind
If, by some fluke of metaphysics, the last four decades of &Eacute;douard Vuillard&rsquo;s long, prolific and rewarding career were erased from collective memory, he still would not be forgotten. Before the age of 30 he made some of the most beguiling paintings of fin de si&egrave;cle Paris: intimate, compact, brushy pictures of his mother and
&nbsp;My first live encounter with &ldquo;The Scream,&rdquo; by Edvard Munch, was during a December stay in Oslo several decades ago. After a week of experiencing the sun-starved Norwegian midwinter, all dawn, dusk and oppressive darkness, I felt I knew where Munch&rsquo;s image of released hysteria was coming from. Since then &ldquo;The
JANE STREET in the West Village is just a few blocks from where the author and urban critic Jane Jacobs lived, but it&rsquo;s named for the farmer who grew tobacco around there more than two centuries ago. Though Jacobs deserves her own namesake street, she will be getting the next best thing this weekend when the Municipal Art Society hosts nearly
