The family of the former N.F.L. linebacker Junior Seau will allow his brain to be examined by researchers who study head trauma, according to a chaplain for the San Diego Chargers . Seau, 43, was found dead in his Oceanside, Calif., home Wednesday morning of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the chest. He did not leave a note. Shawn Mitchell, the
A federal judge in Ohio sentenced the ex-Ohio State and Indianapolis Colts quarterback Art Schlichter to nearly 11 years in prison for swindling participants in what authorities called a million-dollar sports ticket scheme. Schlichter, 52, had been down this road before, spending time in prison in Indiana related to his gambling addiction, which he
LAS VEGAS &mdash; Inside the Mayweather Boxing Club, where the assembled included a lawyer, a famous rapper, a celebrity chef, a girlfriend, an ex-girlfriend, a dozen boxers, a few dozen spectators and, naturally, three representatives from Habitat for Humanity , the boxing equivalent of a Batman signal flashed. Floyd Mayweather Jr. was on his way.
LOUISVILLE, Ky. &mdash; No one begrudged Shivananda Parbhoo his ear-to-ear smile on Friday morning. It was the day before the Kentucky Derby , and he had a horse named Trinniberg with a date in the starting gate. He had picked the colt out himself at a sale in Florida for a bargain price of $21,000. But there are a couple of horsemen here who would
In the first move of what figures to be a contentious fight, the N.F.L. players union launched its defense of four New Orleans Saints players suspended for their roles in the team&rsquo;s bounty program with a three-pronged attack on Commissioner Roger Goodell &rsquo;s authority. The union filed a grievance Thursday night arguing that broad
New documents filed by the lawyers for the former Penn State assistant coach Jerry Sandusky suggest there are at least 17 accusers in the child sexual abuse case against him, a much higher number than described in criminal charges. The requests, dated April 16 and April 23, were attached to a motion filed Thursday in which Sandusky&rsquo;s lawyer,
WASHINGTON &mdash; After a day off to see a movie, walk around town or tour Arlington National Cemetery, the Rangers were fresh and loose at practice Friday. It was their first time on the ice since they won Game 3 in the wee hours of Thursday morning, after 114 minutes 41 seconds of sweat-drenched, bone-rattling, muscle-burning hockey. &ldquo;I
Ilya Bryzgalov signed a nine-year, $51 million contract with the Philadelphia Flyers in the off-season to help stifle the goaltending despair that has hounded the team since the departure of Ron Hextall in the late 1990s. But Bryzgalov&rsquo;s first season on Broad Street has been inconsistent from opening night to the postseason. After a 4-3
GREENBURGH, N.Y. Alone on a podium late Thursday night, Carmelo Anthony wrapped himself in comfortable catchphrases and verbal deflections. The Miami Heat had not shut him down. He was simply &ldquo;missing shots that I normally make.&rdquo; The Knicks , down three games to none in the playoffs, were not defeated. &ldquo;Our confidence is
Paul Maholm of the Chicago Cubs gave up 12 runs in his first two starts of the season. Three weeks later, he is on a roll. Maholm pitched six crisp innings Friday for his third consecutive victory as the host Cubs held on for a 5-4 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers . Maholm (3-2) allowed one run and three hits. In his past three starts, he has
KANSAS CITY, Mo. &mdash; Mariano Rivera sat and chatted amiably with Derek Jeter at Jeter&rsquo;s locker Friday afternoon, an enormous smile somehow creasing his face despite the season-ending injury he had sustained the night before. When they were done talking, Rivera patted Jeter on the knee and hoisted himself to his feet with the help of his
KANSAS CITY, Mo. &mdash; If the injured Mariano Rivera needed any convincing that age needn&rsquo;t be a deterrent in his return from a serious knee injury, Derek Jeter provided it on Friday. Jeter, who turns 38 on June 26, added two more hits to his league-leading tally, including a two-run homer, and scored two runs to help lead the Yankees to a
There had been no real competition for most famous knee injury in Yankees history. That would have been Mickey Mantle&rsquo;s, in Game 2 of the 1951 World Series, on the game&rsquo;s biggest stage, in front of 66,018 at Yankee Stadium. Then came the one Thursday night to closer Mariano Rivera , while he shagged fly balls in batting practice in a
For almost 17 years, Mariano Rivera has starred for the Yankees with humility and grace. His dignified demeanor, as much as his famous cut fastball, has defined him in the public mind. Now we can add another character trait to the most indispensable player of his generation: defiance. Less than 24 hours after tearing his right anterior cruciate
For all the positives in the Mets &rsquo; surprisingly good start to the season, there has been an undercurrent of concern because of various areas that could leave the team exposed. Starting pitching depth, after the injury to Mike Pelfrey, is one area. The back end of a struggling bullpen is most certainly another. So an unforgiving script was
Until now, Dave Robertson was a rising deputy, an increasingly valuable piece of the Yankees bullpen. Until now, Robertson&rsquo;s solid fastball was admired, his deceptive curveball feared and his charming nickname &mdash; Houdini, born of his ability to escape with runners on base &mdash; enjoyed with a laugh. Until now. Now &mdash; and almost
Yankees closer Mariano Rivera declared Friday that his career was not over, and according to medical experts and peers who have come back from a similar knee injury , there is no reason to believe he will not be able to return. Rivera, who tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee Thursday night, faces a recovery process that could last
The New York attorney general Thursday sued the directors of the Thoroughbred Retirement Foundation, one of the largest nonprofit organizations devoted to retired racehorses, saying they had driven the foundation into insolvency and failed to provide money for the basic care of the more than 1,100 horses in their control. The state&rsquo;s top
The results of a second set of tests to determine what caused the death of the champion Norwegian swimmer Alexander Dale Oen, who collapsed and died in Arizona this week, are not expected until late June at the earliest, officials said. The authorities believe that Dale Oen, 26, the world 100-meter breaststroke champion, had a heart attack. Sports
LOUISVILLE, Ky. It was one of those soggy Saratoga afternoons last August, with rain beating on the red and white awnings and sending railbirds for cover under the eaves of the betting windows. The feature that day was for 2-year-old colts going six and a half furlongs, and in the paddock Union Rags let the water bead on him without flinching. He
RICHMOND, Va. &mdash; For Mary Ann Easterling, the prudent and less painful options, it might seem, are to move away and move on. Relocate from the home where she found the body of her husband, Ray, a handgun nearby, and the neighborhood where Ray, a former N.F.L. safety, would become disoriented on long-distance jogs, sometimes prompting one-woman
The four players suspended by the N.F.L. for their roles in the New Orleans Saints bounty program prepared Thursday for what could be a lengthy attempt to overturn their suspensions . But as the players union&rsquo;s executive director, DeMaurice Smith, and its president, Domonique Foxworth, met with the entire Saints team in New Orleans, it became
Baltimore Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs will have surgery for a partly torn Achilles&rsquo; tendon, but he said it would not keep him sidelined for the entire 2012 season. Suggs said the injury occurred in Arizona while he was practicing for a conditioning test. Suggs, the N.F.L. defensive player of the year in 2011, could have surgery as soon as
OCEANSIDE, Calif. &mdash; Last Sunday, three days before Junior Seau was found dead in his oceanfront home, he spoke at the memorial service for his mailman. The theme of his speech, according to those in attendance: to celebrate life. Seau&rsquo;s ended Wednesday morning. The San Diego medical examiner&rsquo;s office ruled Thursday that
Arjen Robben extended his contract with Bayern Munich through 2015 despite his dispute with his teammate Franck Rib&eacute;ry during the Champions League semifinals. The two fought at halftime of the 2-1 win over Real Madrid in the first leg last month. &para; Egypt has been allowed by the government to open its World Cup qualifying campaign at
Notre Dame quarterback Tommy Rees was charged with four misdemeanors on accusations that he raised his knee and knocked the wind out of a police officer after an off-campus house party. Rees, 19, was among about five people who jumped over a backyard fence and ran after officers arrived to break up the party, the police said. Rees started 12 of 13
CHARLOTTE, N.C. &mdash; The seventh fairway at Quail Hollow calls to mind the nearby Sugar Mountain ski resort, with so many buds in the air it looks as if it were snowing feathers. It seemed better suited for the snowboarding champion Shaun White than for his new friend Rory McIlroy, who came to the hole Thursday struggling mightily with his
The 2003 P.G.A. Championship winner, Shaun Micheel, trying to end a nine-year winless drought, shot a five-under 67 to lead the Spanish Open in Seville. Micheel is ranked 608th in the world. Sports Briefing | Golf
WASHINGTON &mdash; There was no practice for the Rangers or the Capitals on Thursday. They were still recovering from Wednesday&rsquo;s Game 3, which took 4 hours 34 minutes and three overtimes to finish. Perhaps no one earned the rest more than Rangers defenseman Ryan McDonagh, who led all skaters in ice time with 53:17 of the 114:41 &mdash;
Columbus Blue Jackets defenseman Jack Johnson was selected captain of the United States team at the world championships, which begin Friday in Helsinki, Finland, and Stockholm. He was also captain of the 2010 world championships team. Sports Briefing | Hockey
Phoenix Coyotes forward Raffi Torres and the players association will appeal the 25-game suspension that Torres received for a devastating hit on Chicago&rsquo;s Marian Hossa, the union said on Thursday. A date for the appeal, to be heard by N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman, has not been set. The players union said it would seek to have the ban
NEWARK &mdash; When Ilya Kovalchuk stepped on the ice before Game 3 against the Philadelphia Flyers on Thursday night, he was bathed in a spotlight and the crowd at Prudential Center thundered its approval, creating an even bigger din later when he scored a goal. Kovalchuk, the $100 million forward, had missed the last game against the Flyers with
Indiana officials said they would not renew the contract to play Kentucky in men&rsquo;s basketball because of a disagreement over where to hold the games. The teams have met in the regular season every year since 1969, nearly always in December. For months the universities have bickered over whether to play the games on campus, as Indiana prefers,
Forty minutes before Thursday night&rsquo;s playoff game between the Knicks and the Miami Heat , Chris Bosh&rsquo;s No. 1 Heat jersey hung in an otherwise empty locker inside the visiting locker room at Madison Square Garden. Bosh&rsquo;s absence was understandable. About 16 hours earlier, his wife, Adrienne, had given birth in Miami to the
DALLAS &mdash; Kevin Durant slowed the tempo as he dribbled toward a deflated Dallas Mavericks defense. Given such a rare open 3-point shot, Durant instinctively swished the jumper &mdash; a basket that came with five minutes still to play yet symbolized how the Oklahoma City Thunder have imposed its will on the reigning N.B.A. champions. Using
The bodies kept falling away, his support system stripped, until Carmelo Anthony stood as the Knicks &rsquo; last bulwark between postseason relevance and extinction. So he kept dribbling and shooting and powering through traffic, until he had run out of room and run out of time. By late Thursday evening, the Knicks had just about run out of
Fuzzy Levane, who as a high school and college star and as a coach and scout for the Knicks was a fixture of New York City basketball for a half-century, died on Monday in Irmo, S.C. He was 92. The cause was heart failure, his son Lawrence said. A personable and gregarious figure, Levane was head coach of the Knicks during the 1958-59 season,
The United States added the college player of the year, Anthony Davis, and James Harden of the Oklahoma City Thunder to its pool of finalists for its Olympic men&rsquo;s basketball roster. After losing Dwight Howard and Derrick Rose to injuries, the United States is back to 18 healthy players. There will be a 12-man roster and 6 alternates. Sports
LeBron James played the role of D.J. in the Heat &rsquo;s locker room before taking the court for Game 3 at Madison Square Garden on Thursday night. The first song he selected was by the rap duo Outkast, &ldquo;Da Art of Storytellin&rsquo; (Part 1).&rdquo; In the first three quarters of James&rsquo;s New York playoff debut, James was more outcast
WASHINGTON &mdash; Jurors in Roger Clemens &rsquo;s perjury trial on Thursday had an up-close view of what prosecutors say is an important pile of trash: a partly crushed beer can, yellowed cotton balls, used syringes and empty vials &mdash; all items the government will later contend connect Clemens to performance-enhancing drug use. It was the
KANSAS CITY, Mo. &mdash; If there has been one constant with the Yankees during the most recent edition of their dynasty, it has been the unparalleled success and durability of their closer, Mariano Rivera . Since 1997, when he took over as the closer for the team, he has provided stability and reassurance as he anchored the Yankees&rsquo; pitching
The professional road and time trial championships were awarded to Chattanooga, Tenn., for three years, 2013 to 2015. This year&rsquo;s races are May 26-28 in Greenville, S.C. Sports Briefing | Cycling
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers made a notable and poignant free-agent signing Wednesday when they added one of Coach Greg Schiano&rsquo;s former Rutgers players: defensive tackle Eric LeGrand, who was paralyzed after injuring his spinal cord in a game in 2010. &ldquo;Leading up to the draft, I couldn&rsquo;t help but think that this should&rsquo;ve been
LOUISVILLE, Ky. &mdash; When the post positions for the Kentucky Derby are drawn and the morning-line odds announced, there is the expectation that some order has been installed on a riot of a horse race. Twenty 3-year-olds, mere adolescents, will go a marathon distance of a mile and a quarter for the first time, before more than 100,000 people,
Heart surgery will prevent Jim Nabors from performing &ldquo;Back Home Again in Indiana&rdquo; at this year&rsquo;s Indianapolis 500, a speedway spokesman said. Nabors, 81, will have surgery this month. A video crew will record Nabors singing the song next week for playback. Sports Briefing | Auto Racing
The first e-mail was sent to New Orleans Saints Coach Sean Payton on Sept. 3 from the federal prison system&rsquo;s minimum-security camp in Florence, Colo. It promised $5,000 for Saints players who delivered hard hits on Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers in the N.F.L. &rsquo;s season-opening game a few days later. The second message,
Jonathan Vilma, the New Orleans Saints &rsquo; defensive captain, was suspended by the N.F.L. without pay for the 2012 season Wednesday. The league said he helped the former defensive coordinator Gregg Williams in &ldquo;establishing and funding&rdquo; the team&rsquo;s bounty program , which rocked the Saints this off-season and also led to the
OCEANSIDE, Calif. &mdash; Behind the police tape, a white coroner&rsquo;s van sat in front of a garage on the 600 block of South the Strand. It waited to collect the body of Junior Seau, a linebacker among the most feared in N.F.L. history, father to three teenagers, son to the mother who wailed long and loud on Wednesday. Earlier in the day,
Chelsea looks certain to finish outside the top four of the English Premier League for the first time in 10 years after a 2-0 home defeat by Newcastle. Papiss Ciss&eacute; scored twice at Stamford Bridge to take his tally to 13 goals in 12 appearances for Newcastle. Tottenham won at Bolton, 4-1, to stay ahead of Newcastle on goal difference. Sports
An unlikely error from goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon gave 10-man Lecce a late equalizer as host Juventus was held to a 1-1 draw that cut its lead over A.C. Milan to 1 point with two Italian Serie A rounds remaining. In the 85th minute, Buffon failed to clear the ball and Andrea Bertolacci took advantage to score a stunning goal. Milan beat Atalanta,
